[MUSIC]
>> Scott: So first we wanna do is, well,
the first exercise that I wanna have
you all do is we looked at the designs.
We kind of just walk through about
what components, actions and
state we'll need an app as
we walk to the designs.
So what you're gonna have todo is you're
gonna have to create a route component and
you have to prep redux with the store,
reducers and actions.
Don't worry, we're gonna walk to that
right now before I actually have you
do it.
So what I'm gonna do now is I'm just
gonna take that todo app that we had from
yesterday and
I'm just gonna set this up to redux.
And this time it's gonna be a lot
more simpler to grasp is not a lot
going on here like it was
in the CSS explanation and
now I have time to actually explain it.
So this is just a basic todo app that we
have that we start off with yesterday.
If you remember, we're just a basic
styles whereas you can type todo.
Okay, remote debugger.
So you can type what todo and
I'll just show up on a page.
Let me get rid of that remote debugger,
this one slows down, there you go.
So instead of just keeping the state
locally, we're just gonna go ahead and
put this in redux.
Sorry, I have redux installed, so
the first thing I wanna do is
right head over to source.
I'm just gonna make a new file here and
I was gonna call this our store.
So our store is literally where we're
gonna be storing our application state.
Except we won't be interacting with
the store directly, redux will.
We just have to give redux a store
to where it can save our statement.
So the way we do that is we import
the method called createStore from redux.
That's the first thing.
And then what we also have to import
is our reducers that we need.
So [INAUDIBLE] reducers and embed it.
But that's what the store is gonna need,
so let's just go ahead and export and
I would just say const store.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Do you
have a starter kit for
this app we're gonna be doing or
do we need to start from scratch?
>> Scott: There is gonna be a starter kit.
Yeah.
So we'll say export const store and that's
gonna equal createStore and like I said,
we're going to pass in the reduces here,
so we're gonna go make those reducers.
So now we're just gonna
make a new file right here.
And we're gonna say reducers.js.
And the job of the reducers is
to take the incoming state at
a given action type create a new state.
That's it.
It is pure functions that take
the old state and make a new state.
Nothing more, that's all they do.
So what we do is for our todo app,
we've gotta kind of think about like
what are the actions that we need to do.
Well, if you go to the todo app, we
have an action where we actually we type
this stuff in,
that could be an action, maybe not.
We could probably keep that local, but
definitely some of the actions
are gonna be creating it todo.
So hidden that and create that todo and
update in our todo state.
So I''ve pretty much created todo.
That's like the only
action we have right now.
If we had another ability like toclick,
totap this and have it removed and
we make another action for remove todo.
Or if we wanted to like sort of things out
with right now, it's just created todo.
So that's the only action
that we're gonna have.
So that's what we're gonna make,
so we're gonna say const and
we'll just save, this reducers gonna
be todos and or reduces our functions.
They're all functions.
So the first argument that ever reducers
gonna get is the current state.
So I'm gonna say the state by
default is gonna be an array.
You do the default parameters
in ES6 like that, so
state if undefined set
it equal to an array.
The second argument you're
gonna get is the action.
So this is just a function, so this is
why we do like switch statements because
we want to create a new state
based on the action type.
So that's why a switch
statement is what we do.
So, I'll just go ahead and
do a switch statement,
although we're only gonna be using one
action, let's just keep the same pattern.
So switch on action.type and
for the first case,
let's actually create that constant for
action and
we'll just call this
TODO with the same name.
So we have an action called CREATE_TODO.
Yes, yes, go away, thank you.
And then what we wanna do is we wanna
go ahead and make that case there, so
the case is gonna be CREATE_TODO.
So when CREATE_TODO happens, all you
wanna do is just update the state with
the new TODO that was
passed in on the action.
So remember,
the state is gonna be an array.
So when someone creates a TODO, all we
wanna do is just return a new state.
So we create a new array and
what we'll do is we'll go ahead and
put the new TODO at the top,
so let's say action.
And let's just say all the data we
pass on to the action is gonna be on
the payload property.
Let's just make that a standard now.
Action.payload will always be the data
that we send with our actions.
There's action.type which
is gonna be actions type,
actions.payload which is the data
that we send on an action and
then our optional action.error
if there's an error or not.
So let's say action.payload
is always gonna be the data.
So in this case,
the payload would be the actual TODO
object that we created over here.
So we're gonna put that at the top
of the array or at the beginning and
there was gonna put any
stuff that's already there.
So we'll spread over it like that.
So again,
we're creating a new array placing the new
TODO in the beginning of the array.
And then iterating over any other TODO
that might have already been in there, so
we don't forget about them.
And that's the new state.
So whatever you return is the new state.
Do you see that?
Any question on that on this pattern
right here?
>> Speaker 3: There was a question about
does the name TODO is in the reducer
create the key TODOs in the store state?
>> Scott: No, it doesn't.
So the name of the reducer
here is irrelevant, but
because when we actually
combine the reducers.
The object that you pass
to combine reducers,
that's gonna be the key
inside of the actual state.
So it's a pattern to name
the reducers with that same key.
So no, the name doesn't affect it.
But if you keep the pattern of keep
the names consistent alternately, yes,
it will affect it.
Which is what we're gonna do, but
this could be called anything,
it's just whatever property you're
using the combined reducers.
And then default statement,
we need to go ahead and
just return state which is an empty array.
So if your reducer returns undefined,
it will draw an error.
Also if you try to mutate the state
in a reducer, it will throw an error,
you can't.
When you take the state, I can't
just say state.push action.payload.
And then just return statement.
I can't do that.
Redux is like nope, that's not happening
cuz you're mutating the state.
So that's why we made a new
array with an array literal.
Passed in the payload at the top and
iterate over any possible TODOs
that may or may not be in there.
So any questions on that?
>> Speaker 4: So what actually
prevents you from mutating state?
>> Scott: Reduces does a check cuz if it
is doing any quality check on the data
structure, are these two the same?
Nope, get out of here.
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
>> Scott: Any other questions?
Cool, so we have that reducer and
then, let's just say we'll make another
one even though we probably won't use it.
We'll just call this one
user just to reiterate it.
So user is also a reducer and let's say
its default state is gonna be an object.
And then it also takes an action.
But because we're probably not gonna use
this one right now, all we can do is we
can just come there and say hey, just
return state which is gonna be an object.
So now we have two reducers.
And remember, I said we need to pass
the store in store.js a reducer but
we have two of them.
So what we can do is we can use a method
provided by redux to actually combine
these reducers and pass to the store.
So what we can do there is
we can just say imports
combinereducers from redux.
And what we'll do is
we'll just go ahead and
exports reduce or
export const reducer equals
combineReducers which takes an object.
And this is where the names
actually matter, so
whatever properties you
pass into this object.
Those are gonna be the state properties
that you get inside your components.
So I'm just gonna keep him saying
we have a TODOs and we have a user.
And because they're the same name and
of the properties that I want,
I can just say todos user, just like that.
Which is the equivalent of
doing todos: todos, user: user.
This is a shortcut if I just do that
cuz they're both the same name.
The property value
are the same variable name.
Everybody get that?
So that's just gonna get in this and
now that we have,
that I can head back over to the store.
>> Speaker 5: Can you
show me the import again?
>> Scott: Yes.
Import combine with redux.
>> Speaker 5: Okay, thanks.
>> Scott: So now that we have that,
I can head over to the store and
I can import that reducer from reducers,
there we go.
And I can just go ahead and pass it here.
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: Is there some reason you
wouldn't use default in your export for
this?
>> Scott: No, you can use default,
it's totally up to you.
If you use-
>> Speaker 6: Okay.
>> Scott: Yeah, so if you were in here and
you were like, export default,
you wouldn't need the name,
you wouldn't need the equal sign.
You would say, export default
combineReducer and then on the store,
you just won't need this brackets.
And then you can call this whatever
you want, you can call it a,
it doesn't matter.
>> Speaker 6: Right
>> Scott: Yeah, I usually do that.
I just don't for some reason because
it causes bugs for me sometimes.
Because I use ES6 in node and they don't
have the default things or breaks.
I'm just in the habit of doing this.
>> Scott: Cool, so we have a store,
we have a reducer.
Only thing we've gotta do now is
actually hook it up to our component,
make some actions and dispatch them.
Any questions so far?
Everybody understand what's
happening right now?
All right.
So we've got a store and
we have some functions.
That's just going to create
a new state given an action.
That's it.